there are mainly two ways to include javascript 
1. inline javascript
2. external javascript

introduction 

javascript is an lightweight , cross -platform and object-oriented programming lanuguage.

javascript is one of the three core technologies of web development.

today, javascript can be used in different places :
1. client-side : javascript was traditionally only used in browser.
2. server-side : thnaks to node js, we can use javascript on server as well

javascript is what made modern web development possible :
- dynamic effects interactivity
- modern web application that we interact with

frameworks/libraries like react and angular are 100 % based on javascript: you need to master javascript in order to use them !

html - noun 
css - adjectives
js - verbs

variable : variable is a container that contain some value or data.
ex.  var firstName = 'rohit';
this way we can define variable in javascript.

primitive javascript datatypes :

1. number : by default all the numbers are float numbers in javascript. so if we type 5 then javascript consider it as 5.0. so we can say that if we define float number or integer number it will be assigned the number datatype to them
2. string : it is a sequence of characters. 
3. boolean : it either contains true or false as their value.
4. null : also means 'non-existent'
5. undefined : datatype of variable which does not have value yet.

- javascript has dynamic typing : it means that datatypes are automatically assigned to variables. we don't have to define them.

rules for variable naming :
1. variable name can not start with numbers and special characters except $ and _
2. we can not use any reserved keywords as a variable name.

there are two types of commands in javascript :
1. single line comment (//)
2. multi-line comment (/*  */)

Type Coercion

for example if we have one string variable and one number variable then if we print string variable and then use + sign and then print number variable also with string then that number will be converted into string. this whole process is known as Type Coercion

Variable mutation 

for example we have a variable named age and we stored 28 in it. after some time in code we assigned 'twenty-eight' in that then this process is called variable mutation.

alert ()

when we use alert method it will display an alert box while loading the page.

prompt ()

when we use prompt method at that time we can take input from user int prompt box.

javascript operators : 

1. math operators
2. logical operators
3. typeof operator (ex. typeof <variable> , typeof <value>)

operator precedence :

operator precedence means which operator has highest precedence that operator's operation will be performed first
ex 10 + 20 / 2;
here / (division has higher precedence so division will be performed first)
ex (10+20)/2;
here first the sum will be performed because ( ) has higher precedence than /.

also perform 2 exercise of javascript 
the first exercise it was easy and simple
the second was also easy in which i used ternery operator and if else if statements.

both the exercises were easy.

after then there was an html exercise too. it was also easy. 


